>> Maximiliano Firtman: Let's cover
the basics of the web app manifest so
that we can go and start coding.
So the web app manifest is kind of
the heart of a progressive web app, okay?
So if you don't have a web app manifest,
you don't have a heart, okay,
you are not a PWA.
It's a JSON file that defines all the
metadata that will help the browser and
the OS to install the app and have
integration into the operating system.
Actually, it's a W3C spec, so
it isn't a standard, okay?
That's why all the browsers
are currently using it.
It is a JSON file, already mentioned that.
But typically,
we don't use the JSON extension.
To be honest, if you check on
current PWA is probably more
than half of the PWAs are calling
the file manifest JSON, but
the official word is to use
the extension.webmanifest.
And that also comes to the MIME type for
the content type,
when you set up your server,
it should use application manifest JSON,
but it accepts anyway,
application JSON as well.
And that's important,
we have to link the file from the HTML.
In which HTML?
Actually, all the documents,
if you're a multi page application,
so you have multiple HTML files,
you actually done all of them.
Because the installation option
will appear only if the current
document that the user is browsing
has the manifest link, okay?
You add the link just with the link
element, as with CSS style sheets,
but the rel says manifest,
that's the difference, okay?
So it's pretty simple.
This one is really important,
because some people think
that if you have an origin domain,
is one origin, one PWA.
But actually, you can have more
than one installable web app or
PWA in the same origin.
If you point to different web app
manifest files, and typically,
when you do that,
you'll have different folders.
I mean it's not mandatory, but
it sounds like a good idea.
And that allows to a pattern
that is not possible or
is too expensive to apply in
the App Store micro-apps.
Have you heard about micro-apps?
It's kind of a business design pattern for
apps that is being used a lot in China for
example.
Not probably in the Western world,
but with PWA,
you can do that, let me explain that.
Let's go back to the coffee store,
or let's talk about Starbucks,
like a big branch.
You have a one Starbucks app, right?
And then you pick the store,
when you're there.
What if you can install one app per store?
So when you open that, it's the Starbucks
that near home, Starbucks near work.
So it already knows where
do you wanna order, okay?
Or even, we can go even further.
You can have the app for
one specific soda machine.
Each soda machine can have a QR
code pointing to a domain.
Forward flash, or an ID, and
each ID can be a different app,
then you install the app.
It's a micro-app, it's an app to engage
directly with that particular device.
In app that I need to connect or
select or find by geolocation.
No, no, I'm already pointing that.
And this is free for us, we don't have
a cost, we can create infinite apps.
Just changing the arguments
of the manifest,
we can create infinite apps and again,
in the App Store is not so simple.
I mean, think about this,
if you are Yelp or
an app that serves different businesses,
right now you're
offering the business to be in your app,
but it's a Yelp app.
But with the PWA,
you can offer each of your business
clients to have their own app.
And you call that once.
>> Speaker 2: Going back to
the example of the soda machine, so
do I understand correctly
that the workflow would
be the user scans a QR code on that
particular [INAUDIBLE] machine?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Or you have an NFC
tag with a URL, that's another option.
>> Speaker 2: And then on the soda
company's server, there's a .webmanifest
file that's generated on the fly using
like templating to put in specific text.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That's one option,
yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, yeah.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Or you can have a
statically generated all the manifest file
for all the machines, or you can
dynamically generate it on the fly,
it's up to you.
>> Speaker 2: You could have
a static site generator?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: For web manifest generator,
geez, all right cool.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah,
that's correct.
>> Speaker 2: Thank you.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So and again,
this adding is like thinking
out of the box now,
it's not just cloning,
what I'm doing for the App Store.
I can actually think on other ideas
with this platform that are not
the normal that we found there,
so we can create micro-apps.
They can have push notifications,
they can be isolated from other micro-apps
with everything that we mentioned or we
will do, but just for very small things.
Maybe the HTML is just a button,
or something like that.